# citynet
This project aims at generating a novel database that presents relationships between cities.

This project aims at generating a novel database that presents relationships between cities. For instance, we would like to know how strongly and in what way Utrecht is related to major cities in other European countries. Such relations have previously been captured for instance based on flows of goods, transportation or connecting flights, or through trade data or a variety of other, often rather inaccurate proxies. Measuring relationships between cities has been a continuous and common challenge – the lack of good data has been called the ‘dirty little secret of world city research (Short et al., 1996). But data science offers new possibilities, and we take advantage of the principle that cities that are strongly related are often mentioned together (‘co-occur’), for instance in texts (Meijers and Peris, 2019). That means that searching for co-occurrences of pairs of cities can shed new light on how they relate. The frequency of co-occurrences of names of cities tells us how strongly related they are, and is perhaps easy to obtain. But the challenge remains to classify those relationships – what is the text about in which cities are mentioned? Both supervised and unsupervised machine learning has been suggested for this classification, but a lexicon-based approach seems also particularly suited. This project explores the co-occurrence of the names of ~250 large European cities on Wikipedia pages and tries to classify those relationships. Challenges include Named Entity Recognition and place name disambiguation. Also, while the classification will be based on English-language Wikipedia pages, a desired feature would also be to have the frequencies of co-occurrences of pairs of cities for pages in different language- allowing for instance a ‘Dutch’, ‘German’ and ‘French’ (add a language you are interested in) perspective on the European urban system. Another optional but desirable if feasible feature is an interactive webpage that maps the urban systems thus obtained, and allows users to interact with the data created.
